Distributed tracing span (#1504)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/integrations/aws/s3-sync.mdx

---
date: 2025-05-29
id: s3-sync
title: Sync Logs from S3 Buckets
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

## Overview

The **S3 Sync** feature in SigNoz enables seamless ingestion of log files from 

> your Amazon S3 buckets into the SigNoz observability platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your Amazon S3 buckets into the SigNoz.

This integration leverages AWS services such as EventBridge and Lambda to detect
and forward new log files, ensuring real-time log analysis and monitoring for services like MSK, VPC, etc 

> service's logs that are only pushed into S3 buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration leverages AWS services such as EventBridge and Lambda to detect
and forward new log files, ensuring real-time log analysis and monitoring for services like MSK, VPC, and other
services whose logs are stored in S3 buckets.
```

## Prerequisites
Before setting up the AWS S3 Sync integration, ensure the following:

> - **AWS Account Access**: You have administrative access to your AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AWS Account Access**: Administrative access to your AWS account with permissions to create IAM roles, Lambda functions, and EventBridge rules.
```

Better to be specific about what level of access is needed. Please add/remove the services if needed.

> - **SigNoz Integration Agent**: The SigNoz Integration Agent is installed and configured in your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Why is this a prerequisite? This is part of the setup step, right?

> - **S3 Buckets**: Identify the S3 buckets and their respective AWS regions from which you want to sync logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **S3 Buckets**: Identify the S3 buckets and their respective AWS regions from which you want to sync logs. Log files must be in `.log.gz` extension.
```

> ## Step-by-Step Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> ### 1. Install the Integration Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install the Integration Agent
```

Begin by installing the SigNoz Integration Agent using SigNoz-provided AWS 
Cloudformation Template. This template establishes the required IAM roles and 
permissions, allowing the Integration Agent to interact with your S3 buckets 

> and related AWS services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Begin by installing the SigNoz Integration Agent using SigNoz-provided AWS 
CloudFormation Template. This template establishes the required IAM roles and 
permissions, allowing the Integration Agent to interact with your S3 buckets 
and related AWS services.
```

> 

Reviewer: If someone has the Integration Agent Installed, then they can skip to step2 right ?

```
<Admonition type="info">
If you already have the Integration Agent installed, skip to step 2.
</Admonition>
```

> ### 2. Enable S3 Sync in SigNoz UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Enable S3 Sync in SigNoz UI
```

Navigate to the SigNoz user interface:

- Go to **Integrations** > **AWS**.
- Select **S3 Sync** and click **Enable `Log Collection`**.
- Provide the names of S3 buckets you wish to sync in the specific regions, you can only sync logs from regions that are enabled in `Account Settings`.

> The Integration Agent will receive this configuration and proceed with the setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to **Integrations** → **Amazon Web Services**.
- Select **S3 Sync** and click **Enable Log Collection**.
- Configure the S3 buckets by specifying:
   - **Bucket Name**: Exact name of the S3 bucket (e.g., `my-app-logs-bucket`)  
   - **Region**: AWS region where the bucket is located
   
<Admonition type="warning">
You can only sync logs from regions that are enabled in Account Settings. 
</Admonition>

The Integration Agent will receive this configuration and proceed with the setup.
```

> ### 3. Automatic Setup by Integration Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Automatic Setup by Integration Agent
```

> Upon receiving the configuration, this setup is created in each region:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon receiving the configuration, the Integration Agent automatically creates the following resources in each specified region:
```

- **EventBridge Configuration**: The agent enables EventBridge notifications on the specified S3 buckets.
- **Event Filtering**: It sets up event filters to monitor for new files within specific buckets.

> - **ECR Repository**: Store Lambda function Image for deployment, Integration Agent pushes an Image from DockerHub to ECR due to limitations setup by AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ECR Repository**: Creates an ECR repository to store the Lambda function container image (sourced from DockerHub due to AWS Lambda limitations).
```

> - **Lambda Function Deployment**: A Lambda function is created, utilizing the permissions established by the Cloud Function Template. This function is responsible for processing new log files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lambda Function**: Deploys a Lambda function established by the Cloud Function Template. This function processes new log files.
```

Should it be CloudFormation template instead of Cloud Function Template ?
If yes, please change it.

### 4. Log Ingestion Process

> When a new `.log.gz` file is added to the specified S3 buckets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new `.log.gz` file is added to the specified S3 buckets, then:
```

- EventBridge detects the new file and triggers the Lambda function.

> - The Lambda function reads the log file and forwards its contents to the SigNoz Ingestion endpoint, making them available for analysis and processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EventBridge will detect the new file and trigger the Lambda function.
- The Lambda function will read the log file and forward its contents to the SigNoz Ingestion endpoint, making them available for analysis and processing.
```

## Considerations
- **File Naming Convention**: Ensure that log files intended for synchronization have the `.log.gz` extension.

> - **Permissions**: The IAM roles and permissions set up by the Cloudformation Template must remain intact for the integration to function correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Permissions**: Do not modify the IAM roles created by the CloudFormation template. They are needed for the integration to work as expected.
```

Can you also mention in brief what these IAM roles and permissions are? For example -> `S3 bucket read access (`s3:GetObject`)`

Reviewer 2: @Calm-Rock I think we should publish a separate page explaining the whole Template on docs later.

Reviewer 2: There are multiple roles, permissions involved in making the configuration work, so mentioning one permission ain't gonna make it

Reviewer: Got it. We can hyperlink that doc to this once we have it live.

Issue - https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz-web/issues/1509

> - **Region Specificity**: Accurately specify S3 buckets corresponding to your AWS regions during configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Region Specificity**: Each S3 bucket must be configured in its correct AWS region.
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Logs Not Appearing in SigNoz**:

>     - Verify that the S3 bucket names are correctly specified in the SigNoz UI.

Reviewer: Will this be case-senstive ?
If yes, `Verify S3 bucket names exactly match those configured in the SigNoz UI (case-sensitive).`

>     - Check the AWS CloudWatch logs for the Lambda function to identify any errors during execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check AWS CloudWatch logs for the Lambda function to identify any errors.
```

Is there any specific name for the lambda function ? If yes, `the Lambda function (name-of-lambda-function)`

>     - Ensure that the `.log.gz` files are correctly formatted and compressed.

Reviewer: Any particular format that needs to be followed? If yes, please mention otherwise ignore.

- **Permission Issues**:

>     - Confirm that the IAM roles created by the Cloudformation Template have the necessary permissions to access the S3 buckets and invoke the Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Verify that the IAM roles created by the CloudFormation Template have the necessary permissions to access the S3 buckets and invoke the Lambda function.
```
